---
Layout: post
Published: true
published: true
---


## Some Thoughts on the Text Analysis

For literary scholars, textual analysis makes possible the processing of large bodies of work previously thought too daunting and time consuming to be undertaken. The computational tools currently available open the doors to vast stores of data waiting to be interpreted. Personally, I find this an exhilarating possibility as it facilitates the mapping of concepts over time. As a sociology major, the ability to map the development of concepts through time and space is essential to understanding why actors and institutions are the way they are. It is worth noting however, that the data produced during research, especially in the case of literary studies, should be read closely. Tanya Clement, Sara Steger, John Unsworth, and Kirsten Uszkalo, in "How Not to Read a Million Books" highlight that researchers should refrain from utilizing the technology as a means of demonstrating the truth of hypotheses. A more reliable approach to research would be to treat findings as sign posts or flags indicating locations for further, closer analysis. 

In addition to the risk of treating text analysis software as an end in itself, we must also be aware of the tendency to seek a single truth. I think that while large quantities of data make it possible to uncover aspects of social behavior previously unaccounted for or that lacked clear definitions, the idea that they are uncovering, as suggested in "How Not To Read a Million Books", somthing like 'fundamental social facts' (Clement, Steger, Unsworth, and Uszakalo), is difficult for me to accept. If a social fact does exist, it seems like it may only be applicable to a specific social, cultural, and historical context. The idea of self-esteem as an example, originating in psychiatric studies of the early 19th century, has become a dominant social 'fact' but it emerged as a result of developing an encompassing network of actors who applied the concept to their own work before being adopted by the public. I think it is useful to consider the idea of a social fact as something which is constructed over time rather than something which exists outside of historical process. A great text that sheds light on the process of producing 'facts' is Steven Ward's "Filling the World with Self-Esteem: A Social History of Truth-Making" (1996).

## Why use text analysis 

Despite the potential for poor methodology, the tools and technology that exist today present a research environment where we are able to identify sign posts across large stores of data in order to better make sense of the world we investigate. Distant reading opens the doors to possible close reading and together, the two methods can offer windows into phenomena like the representations of the working class in 19th century English novels and the social and historical contexts from which the texts were produced. Interestingly, in searching for specific data, we also become aware of what is absent from the texts in our study. What remains silent in the narrative says just as much as what the author included.Generally speaking, by employing the macro analysis of computational tools, and micro analysis of close reading and contextualization, a researcher is able to fill in the two sides of the whole. What remains challenging and relevant to contemporary studies in sociology however, is how text analysis can make sense of racism, for example, not just as a set of terms and behaviors but as something reflective of what it is like to experience racism. In “More Scale, More Questions: Observations From Sociology” Tressie McMillian Cottom addresses the question and leaves us pondering what maps and data visualization would look like if they were based on lived experience. It seems to me like text analysis tools can be applied to at least shed a light on what this would look like if we apply the tools to the right kinds of texts. The world of post-colonial literature for example could offer a set of texts worth exploring and of mapping experiences of racialized subjects whose voices and narratives have otherwise been silenced.
