---
published: true
layout: post
---
## Some Thoughts on Visualization

In short, information vizualization can be regarded as the representation of data that has been reduced to points, lines, shapes, etc. The visual representation of this data, while not taking into consideration the vast majority of information specific to the object of study, enables researchers to identify characteristics that would otherwise be difficult to identify using conventional analytic techniques. Using visualization tools to represent the purchasing history of a museum for example might reveal trends that remain unexamined when not reduced to a few basic elements. By attributing spatial characteristics such as distance and size to data, it is also posible to identify the prominance of certain concepts. If we think about the types of articles people click on in different social media platforms, we can represent the different types using spheres of varing size as an indicator of views. Although it doesn't explain the reasoning behind the selection of articles, visualizations of this type helps to shed light on the habits of individuals and groups. 

From a sociological perspective, vizualization offers a way to make sense of complex data that has often eluded scholars. Network analysis seems to be of particular use to sociologists as it enables researchers to visualize or map the interactions or usage of concepts between actors. I am reminded here of Steven Ward's “Filling the World with Self-Esteem: A Social History of Truth-Making” because visualizations seem to offer a way to actually capture the prevalence of a concept and how its use might vary accross different networks. In the case of self esteem, network diagrams would reveal the usage of the concept and the different actors employing it, or in other words, it would reveal the encompassing network of actors. 

If we move a step further and apply computational tools to analyse the incredibly complex web of interaction that takes place across social media platforms we could also gain insights into the behavioural patters of individuals and groups. I admit that in this case, I'm not that familiar with the types of tools that can be used to achieve the analysis of such large data sets, but at a theoretical level it opens the door to a number of possibilities. Lev Manovich in "The Science of Culture? Social Computing, Digital Humanities, and Cultural Analytics" (2017) provides an overview of the place of culutral analytics in the study of human activity. In the article Manovish draws a connection between cultural analytics and sociological investigation by pointing out that both seek to identify larger patterns of behavior. By using computational tools to vizualize social media use by gender for example, we may be able to identify unforseen trends and patterns. It should also be noted however that, by looking at generalizations of behviours it is possible to reify socially constructed concepts and so attention must be paid to the way in which research is framed and presented. Distant reading, or macroanalysis, is incredibly useful but close reading and microanalysis should also inform any research conclusions. 

### Additional Thoughts

I find it interesting that, as noted in Kevin Ferguson's "Digital Surrealism: Visualizing Walt Disney Animation Studios" (2017), the summed z-projection technique can be used to identify elements of the environment or stage, as well as the placement of characters within frames. In the study of 'race' and ethnicity in film, the summed z-projection techniques offers a window into the creators' intentions and may reveal information about the ways in which racialized characters have been treated. Whether a character is relegated to the margins of a frame or features in the center can have a potential impact on how we concieve of different identities. I am sure research has been done regarding the treatment of racialized characters in Disney films but this technique may present new information that we don't typically notice while observing a film in its entirety. In addition, if there is a threshold at which an object appears static in the image, I wonder how this reflects the creators intentions and whether it is designed in a way that they want us to take away certian images after watching the film. 

### In Education?

In my teching experience, information visualizations have always been interesting starting points for discussions with my students. I would often try to find an info graphic that related to the topic being discussing as it makes information immediately apparent and allows for a deeper analysis of the findings. When discussing issues of social inequality, graphic representations of data, that would usually require hours of reading to grasp, can be made visible to students. As in the case of academic research, this simply opens the doors to a closer reading of the underlying causes of the data we found. 


