---
published: true
layout: post
----
----




## Mapping and Subjective Data 

When most people think of maps, the first image that comes to mind is most likely the Mercator projection or perhaps google maps. I don’t know if this is an actual fact but I think points to a general tendency in society to think about maps in a very simplistic manner, where the data being represented is a matter of fact. This matter of factness is important when we consider the social and political implications it can have. It points to the general tendency to treat data as objective rather than as capta, which is actively taken. Looking at the reification of categories like gender in census' and survey's, for example, speaks to the social construction of categories and what we consider to be data. If we continue to rely on the binary understanding of gender, and treat it as a matter of fact, it is difficult for individuals to break from the established conventions. If we instead, account for variation amongst gender identifications, and apply this understanding to the way we represent data it seems possible that we may open up a space for more nuanced understandings of the world around us. Without the availability of new categories, or flexibility within categories, the possibilities for change are limited. 

In Johanna Drucker’s “ Humanities Approaches to Graphic Display” (2011), she offers a variety of examples of mapping, and more broadly visualization, which demonstrate the significance of ambiguities and nuances of data representation. Using the example of a set of novels, Drucker complicates the understanding of the publication date by representing the data that pertains to when the novel was first authored, acquired, and edited. This approach brings an element of history into the equation and complicates the common perception that novels just fall out of the sky the year they are put into print. Charts like this could be useful when analyzing themes across novels produced during a specific time frame and offers greater context to the researcher. Knowledge of when the novel was written may offer insights into the political or cultural motivations for producing the text or a series of texts. This work could of course be done on an individual basis but if there is a shift in our approach to representing data we can make the process of identifying relevant information easier. 

### In Education 

One of the most valuable aspects of mapping is the role it could occupy in both primary and secondary education. I once showed two examples of the world map, the gall-peters and mercator projection, in my English class just as a discussion point about representation and my students either had no clue what I was talking about or just couldn’t see the relevance. Maybe I didn't do a great job framing maps as a social construct but I think a general knowledge of geography is lacking in secondary education. Apart from reintroducing geography classes, one of the things we can do is bring maps into history classes. One of the examples offered by Drucker is the mapping of a journey between London and Prague, set during the early 1810s. What’s really interesting about this map is that in indicates what the traveler was likely to experience, whether it be steep terrain, conflicts or fear. Applying this to a Canadian history course, a mapping of the settlement of Canada could make the historical process immediately visible for students. Supplementing this, text boxes or multimedia descriptors of key events would contextualize the information students observe. If spatiality and temporality are modified to reflect the experience of individuals and groups in a similar way to that of the 1810 maps, students gain a more accurate understanding of historical processes. As a subjective experience sound also offers interesting prospects for education. Using sound, as it was used in the mapping of York municipal cemetery in England during the 2014 Heritage Jam as part of the *Voices/Recognition* project for example, could help convey the depth of history present in spaces we don’t often have the chance to engage with. Studying history in unconventional spaces not only makes it more engaging, but expands students understanding of what actually constitutes the study of ‘history’. 

In addition, there is a close relationship between some of the activities that involving mapping navigational routes and subjective experiences and the current discussion of introducing video games into the classroom. There is a lot of talk about the use of video games in education as they can be particularly useful when getting students to work through real life/simulated problems. If students are placed in specific historical moments and are asked to work their way through a set of problems, it helps to bring the ‘real’ world into the classroom and fosters greater student engagement. Once again, playing with temporality and spatiality could help to bring the more subjective experiences into student’s realm of knowledge. The advancements in gaming, augmented reality, and virtual reality promise to offer new and interesting ways of getting students to engage with the world. 

