---
published: true
layout: post
title: Accessibility
---
---


George Williams, in a talk at the Univeristy of South Carolina entitled, "Accessibility in Digital Environments: Language, Law, and the Question of Inclusion"(2013), discusses accessibility as an ongoing collaborative project. In order to enact change at a large scale it's important to incorporate different parties, each bringing different skill sets and approaches to solving problems. This requires involvement from individuals of all ability.  In "Accessibiliy Whack-A-Mole"(2016) Eleanor Ratliff offers insights into what this process would look like. The issue of accessible design, she asserts, is not one that can not easily be solved by a one size fits all philosophy. The case of the Progress Two headline font used on their new [Wellcome](https://wellcome.ac.uk/) website, is an example of this kind of collaborative development. As someone who has dyslexia, the knowledge that it was difficult for someone people with dyslexia to read the font proved to be a sobering moment for Ratlif. In order to accomodate different abilities and make the webpage generally more easy understood, the design team decided to conduct a survey designed to generate feedback about the accessibility of the site. These surveys were shared through twitter with various charities that worked with dyslexia,autism, and ADHD. The feedback revealed that there were no major issues with the modified site, but what stands out is the fact that interactions like this can help to correct oversights during the development process. I think the idea of sharing and receiving feedback is a critical part of working towards a more accessible and inclusive future. Collaboration between different parties can help to view issues from different perspectives, something we as individuals or a small group of people, might overlook. 
   
   One of the major obstacles to making progress in the field of accessibility is the deeply rooted notion of 'ableism' in contemporary society. The fact that ableism is one of the least talked about 'isms' is concerning since it is so prominent in our daily discourse. We tend to think in binary terms when it comes to disability. Those who are deemed 'able-bodied' are categorized as the normal or universal type while anyone else is framed as lacking or incapable of being whole.A recognition of difference is essential but it has to be a recognition that does not produce a hierarchy of worth or capacity. In order to address this problem one of the things that needs to be done is education about the wide reaching benefits of making information and knowledge accessible to everyone. The contemporary framing of the discussion tends to neglect the impact accesibility can have on society as a whole. Rather than think of it as something which benegfits a small portion of the population the discussion should focus on how it can benefit individuals of any ability. In "Disability, Universal Design, and the Digital Humanities" (2012) George H. Williams offers universal design as one of strategies for offering greater accesibility. By working with the principes of universal desing one of the most basic things that can be achieve is the increased likelihood that projects will be accessible across different devices. Williams points out that these small changes to design can have a huge impact on peoples access to information. Younger demographics tend to rely heavily on mobile phones and tablets to access information, and in households that don't have the means to afford a computer, this need becomes more pressing. Just being able to access projeects is a step to words greater accessibility. 
  
   In general I feel like the philosophy of the digital humanities is well aligned to the project of making information that has traditionally been reserved for a privileged group available to not only individuals with disabilities but to the general population. The "Open Access" movement within the digital humanities in particular is highlighy relevent to this discussion as it removes the notion of the pay wall or subscriptions which limit access to ideas and knowledge. It literally opens a space where individuals have power which facilitates a sense of belonging. Despite there not being a single solution to making the world around us completley accessible, a collective effort to put into practice tools and design principles that make information more accessible is a step in the right direction.
