---
published: true
layout: post
---
## Making Work Public 

### Understanding Today by Understanding the Past

In Sarah Bond’s article, “Why We Need to Start Seeing the Classical World in Colour” (2017), she makes a highly relevant point concerning the association of whiteness with beauty and purity and the contemporary implications this has on understandings of race. As with anything, beauty has a history that is not independent of social, cultural, or political interests. In the context of classic sculptures, the development of a western aesthetics of beauty has been closely linked to a highly Eurocentric 19th century interpretation of history and art. Passing on this interpretation or aesthetic gaze, western society continues to regard the ‘white’ and ‘pure’ sculptures of antiquity as an idealized version of humanity and imposes these views on historical actors. Whether in the form of museum displays, text book descriptions, or popular representations, the false understanding continues to lend weight to white supremacist thinking.  In reality, this is nothing more than a poor reading of the material being studied. As Bond notes in her article, most of the sculptures of antiquity were painted in vibrant colours which shatters, or at least challenges, the white supremacist reading of classical history and art. 

What needs to be done in this case, and this is where the connection to the public humanities comes in, is a coordinated effort on the part of museums and academic institutions to contextualize the works of antiquity. Some of the means through which this can be done, as addressed by Bond, include 3D visualizations, improved lighting techniques, as well as more accurate descriptions in text books as well as in museum displays. As with any form of art, without context the gaps in knowledge that remain are easily filled with whatever pre-existing beliefs the viewer wants to insert. This, in my mind at least, should be considered the first step in addressing the general misperception people have regarding classical works of art. Personally, what I would love to see, is a closer relationship between museums and academic institutions with the film, television, and gaming industries. In addition to a presence on social media and other digital platforms, I think breaking into the realm of popular culture via movies, games and television is one of the most effective way of correcting general misunderstanding.  If this is done as a compliment to the change in curriculum in secondary and post-secondary schooling, the myth of white antiquity will hopefully recede, although I’m sure it will not surrender easily. 

### The Public(s)

Colleen Flaherty, in “Threats for What She Didn’t Say”(2015), addresses Bond’s experience of writing for the public and points to the risks that women and visible minorities face. While Bond’s argument is sound and generally accepted within academic communities, the different publics that encounter her work reflect a diversity of opinion and belief. The credibility of Bond as a scholar was challenged by various individuals and organizations such as [CampusReform](https://www.campusreform.org/?ID=9285), while anti-Semitic attacks were also directed at her by different parties. While Bond acknowledged she was prepared to receive criticisms concerning her work, the hatred and level of antagonism she experienced exceeded her expectations. To understand this ‘diversity’ a reading of Kris Shaffer’s (2017) [article](https://pushpullfork.com/twitter-propaganda-during-unite-the-right/) on propaganda during the ‘unite the right rally’, will help to explain how radical opinion can come to influence dominant discourse and offers insight into the kinds of ‘voices’ at play. 

Similar to the harassment experienced by Bond, Tressie McMillan Cottom, in “Who Do You Think You Are?” points out that gender, race, and class serve as a basis for discrimination and devaluation of credentials in certain publics. While the notion that any press is good press may be true for a white male, the exposure that comes with microcelebrity puts women and visible minorities at risk. McMillan’s experience demonstrates the ways in which race and gender are used as a means to devalue her credentials and as the basis for hatred. The threats she received and the false sense of authority displayed by the public point to the importance of having institutional support as well as to the importance of continuing to write for the public. It seems at least part of the problem, one more easily corrected, has to do with the hiring practices of universities and other academically oriented institutions. By not hiring academics who are black and female, universities are continuing to propagate the idea that only white men are capable of the highest level of academic/intellectual work. While this doesn't address the overwhelming systemic racism and gender bias that is present in society it certainly does not help those who are brave enough to write for the public. 

### References

Bond, Sarah. ‘The argument made by the absence: On Whiteness, Polychromy, and Diversity in Classics’ https://sarahemilybond.com/2017/04/30/the-argument-made-by-the-absence-on-whiteness-polychromy-and-diversity-in-classics/

Bond, Sarah. ‘Why We Need to Start Seeing the Classical World in Color’ https://hyperallergic.com/383776/why-we-need-to-start-seeing-the-classical-world-in-color/

Cottom, Tressie McMillan. 2015 ‘Who Do You Think You Are?’: Academic Engagement,Microcelebrity and Digital Sociology from the Far Left of the Matrix of Domination Ada 7 2015 http://adanewmedia.org/2015/04/issue7-mcmillancottom/

Shaffer, K. 2017 ‘Twitter propaganda during ‘Unite the Right’ http://pushpullfork.com/2017/08/twitter-propaganda-during-unite-the-right/
