---
published: true
---
## A Reflection on Publishing 

When talking about publishing in the context of the digital humanities, it seems like two of the central themes being raised are  accessibility and transparency.  As with some of the trends or patterns seen in contemporary scholarship, discussion around publishing is looking to expand and complicate traditional forms. Rather than produce a text in insolation, only revealing it once it has been deemed completed, open source publishing looks to produce a more collaborative space where writing, editing, and publication can take place. In the case of history writing for example, opening up the field to input from non-professionals has had the impact of highlighting the sites of conflicting interpretation. By extension, this approach to publishing and writing raises or rather, challenges the question of who really owns history. In challenging the established norms of history writing, it helps open the possibility of challenging harmful narratives and misrepresentations. In general it seems that open-access journals and collaborative writing are moving away from the traditional conception of 'authorship' which helps to incorprate a more diverse and comprehensive interpretation of events and the world they take place in. 

To look at a concrete case, Hong-Ming Liang (2013) in "Opening the Journal: How an Open-Access E-Journal Can Serve Scholarship, the Liberal Arts, and the Community" does a good job of highlighting the ways that open-access journals can help foster engagement in communities typically excluded from higher academics. In this particualr case the the *Middle Ground* journal offers means for undergraduate as well as K-12 students to participate in the publishing process, whether it be in the form of book review recommendations or marketing on behalf of the journal. In addition to engaging students this perspective is benficial because of possibilities it exposes students too, demonstrating the viability of the liberal arts as a career path worth considering. As noted by Liang (2013), regardless of whether *Middle Ground* inspires students to pursue a career in the liberal arts, its value lays in the fact that it demonstrates how the liberal arts can enrich anyone's life. 

As a side note, it is important to recognize the potential threats or dangers of transparent scholarship. As has been demonstrated in the past, depending on the subject matter, scholars can come under attack for the ideas they put forward in public spaces. Addressing issues of race, class, or gender for example needs to be done carefully as the public(s) can push back, employing racist or sexist frameworks to challenge research. 
