---
published: false
---
---
## A Word on Computational Creativity 

When someone creates an artifact, like a painting or a sculpture, we tend to think of that act as a creative one. To produce or modify an artifact, using a variety of tools, and with a certain degree of imagination is what we generally hold to be the creative process. However, when we introduce mechanical components into this process it becomes complicated and its status as a creative piece can be challenged. When it concerns computational creativity, it becomes even more vague and difficult to reach a consensus, with many people labeling it as a reduced or mediated form of creativity. This understanding bears a resemblance to [Kate Compton’s](http://www.casualcreator.com/blog/) discussion of big ‘C’ and little ‘c’ creativity. What I find interesting about this dichotomy is that it seems to reflect a distinction between legitimate and illegitimate cultures. One is oriented towards the cultivation of a particular message or objective while the latter is primarily art for arts sake. Complimenting these two intents, is the concept of delegation from actor network theory. In many contexts, what might be considered computational creativity is used to perform tasks typically assigned to human actors. This delegation of tasks can be used to cut the cost of labour, although it is generally not thought of as creative, instead it is a means to improve productivity. Its important to remember here that each task, whether it’s painting or writing code for a program that will generate content, is carefully pieced together through a number of steps and processes with an intent. 

One of the things that I’ve found interesting about computational creativity is that, like most things in the world, programs like _A Rogue Dream_ or games like _No Mans Sky_ are the product of human labour. As such, AI’s and procedurally generated games always emerge from and are situated within specific contexts. This is important because both the creators of the artifact and it’s position the wider social milieu leave the artifact susceptible to social, political, and cultural influences. The gendering of technologies for example, is a major problem when it comes to the development of technologies. Assistive devices like Amazon’s Alexa for example, rely on the societal expectation that women are helpful and assistive. While I myself haven’t done much research on this topic, it seems like the general public(s) would be resistant to a male assistive technology as it doesn’t conform to the existing gender norms. However, it seems like AI and computational creativity present an interesting tool set to challenge and potentially subvert these norms. This of course, comes down to the programmers and creators of the technologies, which raises questions about what the field looks like. As is commonly known, the tech field is dominated by men for a number of reasons which I can’t spend much time on, which increases the likely hood of bias and blindness towards the diverse range of experience.  In the end we need a more inclusive environment that expands the scope of the technology, taking into consideration the wider social, cultural, and political context in which it is located. 


Readings 

-Compton, Kate. 2014 ‘The Casual Creator’ http://www.casualcreator.com/blog/
-Phillips, Amanda Feminism and procedural content generation: toward a collaborative politics of computational creativity http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/14626268.2016.1147469
-Compton, Kate. 2015. ‘Tracery: An Author-Focused Generative Text Tool’ International Conference on Interactive Digital Storytelling https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-319-27036-4_14 see also Tracery.io
