---
published: true
layout: post
---


## Crowds and Community 


In exploring what it means to be a member of a digital community or to contribute to a collaborative project, trying understand the 'digital space' can be a challenge. Approaching this from a sociological perspective, it might be useful to refer to Erving Goffman's theory of the interaction order to understand how a concept like digital community can exist. Unlike face to face interactions which require the actor to be in the other participant's response presence, digital or mediated interaction allows the actors to meet exclusively in time. The absence of the physical, while complicating mutual monitoring of actions, liberates actors from the physical space they find themselves in. A digital community then, is a community of actors who do not have to share any specific geographical location, but rather, share a set of values, beliefs, or commitments. In the case of Wikipedia, the community of contributors, editors, and administrators are actively constructing a digital space where individuals interact. The changes that are made to articles and the sometimes heated discussions that ensue are part of a process of community building. Even though most users of Wikipedia do not make changes to the articles, they benefit from the work of a group or community of users. The democratic approach fosters a sense of connectedness and promotes an investment in the product. It should also be noted that while projects like Wikipedia are the obviously more popular and widely consulted, other communities exist in places we don’t often consider. One such example being the stock market, with it’s constant exchanges and interactions, and with the constant monitoring of change by stock brokers. Even though the brokers are not physically present in each other response presence, they are connected by their various computer screens or what Karin Knorr Cetina (2009) refers to as a ‘scopic system’. While not the typical example of a collaborative project, I think it speaks to the digitalization of daily life and our interconnectedness with technologies.  

Regarding the quality of the writing on Wikipedia pages, it is sometimes obvious that articles are not written by professional writers. However, while the quality of the writing might not be on par with the articles in professionally written encyclopedias, they have the potential to offer knowledge to a wider audience. Importantly, as noted by Rosenzweig (2006), the articles that contain the most errors are typically the newest ones but the quality of the writing increases as more contributors make changes to the articles. With this in mind, while the best resources are not always available to the public, Wikipedia offers a fairly reliable source of information. As a resource it is beneficial to public education even if it contains occasional errors and bias, perhaps warranting a reconsideration of what it means to write 'good history'. Not only should we reconsider what it means to write history, but we should think about the ways bad/not so good historical writing can shed light on existing issues. By looking at bias in historical writing for example we can sometimes gain insights into different perspectives or what Durkheim referred to as ‘social facts’. The emphasis that gets placed on key events and historical figures has the potential to reveal new information about historical memory, political orientations, etc. 

##Writing for the Public 

While most scholars engage in blogging, online discussions, Wikipedia entries, or any variety of digital scholarly work, the primacy of the academic tradition remains firmly in place.  Despite the high approval of digital scholarly work, the willingness of professional academics to participate and be evaluated on public projects is understandably low. While most academics and professionals agree that participation in digital projects is important and should be done, the evaluation and criticism of the work is what remains challenging. Logically, the fact that the work is open to interpretation from alternative perspectives leads to some level of discomfort. The conventions of academic writing may not be ideal for communicating ideas to a nonacademic audience and the nuanced arguments in the work may pass unnoticed. This raises the question of what kind of writing should be employed? As many scholars are already doing in the name of accessibility, the answer to this question is a simple one. As someone coming from an education background one of the best steps forward that scholars engaged with the digital work can make is to use simple language that builds towards more complex ideas and understandings. While this is certainly not always the case in traditional academics I believe in order to make information more accessible and to invite greater public participation, the work must be intelligible to the average reader. 

As mentioned earlier, Wikipedia articles contain minor errors and the occasional misperception but if a culture of participation can be fostered the quality of open projects like Wikipedia benefit. By engaging scholars and encouraging them to interact with the public in a transparent way may help to strengthen the position of digital scholarly work in the future. Rather than engage once a month or once every two weeks in digital scholarly work, it might be beneficial to replace some of the traditional academic work with more digital work. By increasing the presence of academics in digital spaces non-academics are able to engage and develop new skills they can bring into situations. The culture of fear associated with writing in the ‘public forum’ might eventually lessen and open up a space for increased collaboration and interaction with the public. This in turn, would help educate the public and promote a culture of collaboration. 
    
##Education 

While we in the DIGH5000 are collaboratively working on a project of our own, the benefit of collaborative, group oriented projects in education should be more widely promoted. As seen in the Grinnel Beowulf project, there is a potential for students to become members of a community where they are able to collaborate and learn. In the case of the Beowulf project students where able to create annotations about the translations being made and engaged in a dialogue throughout the process. This is kind of learning activity is reflective of project based learning. While the Grinnel Beowulf project was targeting post-secondary learners, project based learning is often used in secondary schools as a more authentic learning experience. Engaging directly with the primary materials and using new tools allows for new skills to develop and for knowledge to be produced collectively. Outside of schools, the public is able to benefit from the diffusion of new projects and resources as well. With the increased prevalence of scholarly content on social media platforms like twitter, new ideas and research can be disseminated to a wider audience. This of course requires that it be accessible to the public, reinforcing my earlier point about the nature of digital scholarly writing. 

